Writeup
Authors: John Feltrup, Kyungmin Jamie Park

Description of the model:

Due to the fact that this is a dry run, we decided to use one of our models from Assignment 1,
modified to work with the larger unicode vocabulary.

The model is an interpolated 5-gram model. The hyperparameters determining the weight of each of the ngrams was
tuned on a held out dev set. An ngram model is one of the simpler models, but for the dry run we had time to take
some of our work from assignment 1 and work with the larger vocabulary and new Dataset

A Note on the Vocabulary:

The project spec defines the vocabulary as V=136,690. This would be consistent with all the named characters
in Unicode 10.0, but it does not quite match up with what we have done so far. It does not include control characters
that we have used, and the tests for Assignment 1 include some characters from a Private Use Area in the BMP.

So, to get close to vocab defined in the spec while still passing the tests, our vocabulary is V=146,896. This is
all of Unicode 10.0, minus Surrogate blocks and Private Use Blocks outside of the BMP.

Description of the Dataset:

The Dataset is a 197 MB text file that is a mixture of books from the Gutenburg Project and Sentiment140 data
from twitter. The books are largely in English and Chinese, as well as a few other languages. The Twitter data
is a mixed bag

The goal this mixed dataset is to have coverage over multiple languages, while being able to recognize natural
text from the most likely languages (eg, English, Chinese). The goal of the book data is to recognize natural text.
The Twitter data should help keep the perplexity, how surprised the model is, lower.


Notes/Comments about the Dry Run:

The model that we used for this Dry Run is simpler than the model that we intend to use for final project. We intend
to build a Recurrent Neural Net (RNN) to model the language. We decided it was important to at least try and the
dry run, and it puts us on the right path for the final.


References

* Project Gutenburg
Citation:
Project Gutenberg. (n.d.). Retrieved April 26, 2018, from www.gutenberg.org.

* Sentiment140 Dataset

Citation:
Go, A., Bhayani, R. and Huang, L., 2009. Twitter sentiment classification using distant supervision.
CS224N Project Report, Stanford, 1(2009), p.12

* The nltk package (For natural language processing in Python)

Citation:
Bird, Steven, Edward Loper and Ewan Klein (2009), Natural Language Processing with Python. O’Reilly Media Inc.
