John Feltrup
CSE 517: Natural Language Processing
A1: Language Modeling

(i): How the Language Model works

This is an ngram language model. Specifically, it constructions 1-5 grams of the data, and interpolates
the models to the the probability of a unicode character given a history. The largest ngram goes up to 5, which carries
 some risk of the model jsut repeating the training text, but because we are modeling at the character level and not the
 word level, I believe the model will be better at generating actual words. The hyperparameters used to interpolate
the ngram models were trained on a held out portion of the training set, a dev set that was about 10% of the dataset.

(ii): Description of the Data trained on

I trained my model on "The UMass Global English on Twitter Dataset". It contains 10,502 annotated tweets from 130 countries.
While it is called the "English on Twitter" dataset, it does contain a variety of languages. The tweets are annotated for whether
they are in english or not, along with some other properties

I chose this dataset for two primary reasons. Firstly it is multilingual. There would be no point in training a model in
the BMP if it only contained a single language. The second reason is twitter is a source of varied information. It is not
the same kind of text you find in a book, but it many contain more of what may be daily used natural language.

(iii): External tools and libraries

* The nltk package (For natural language processing in Python)

Citation:
Bird, Steven, Edward Loper and Ewan Klein (2009), Natural Language Processing with Python. O’Reilly Media Inc.

* The Twitter Dataset

Citation:
Blodgett, Su Lin, Johnny Wei, and Brendan O'Connor.
"A Dataset and Classifier for Recognizing Social Media English."
Proceedings of the 3rd Workshop on Noisy User-generated Text. 2017.

* The pandas package (for processing the data in python)

Citation:
Wes McKinney. Data Structures for Statistical Computing in Python, Proceedings of the 9th Python in Science Conference,
51-56 (2010) (publisher link)

(iv): Miscellaneous/Going Forward
Overall, it is not the most complicated model in the world, but a solid first attempt at language modeling.
Looking forward to the project, I would want to use a neural model, as well as a much bigger and more diverse
dataset. I haven't work much with neural libraries, but that makes it a good goal for the project at the end.